# Angular Migration Guide v4 to v5

## Major changes

- Build system switched from pub transformers to build_runner/webdev. 
  [Dart 2 Migration Guide for Web Apps](https://webdev-dartlang-org-dev.firebaseapp.com/dart-2)
- Introduced Router 2.0. [Router Migration Guide](https://github.com/eredo/angular/blob/master/doc/router/migration.md)
- Strictly typed injector.
- Usage of generated `.template.dart` files for `NgFactory` referencing.

## Migration steps

Angular 5 and the build related dependencies require Dart 2, therefore install `>=2.0.0-dev.64.1` SDK version before 
continuing. When developing in Intellij/WebStorm make sure to adapt the configuration of your SDK path in the dart 
settings.

### Update angular dependencies

```yaml
dependencies:
  angular: ^5.0.0-alpha
  angular_router: ^2.0.0-alpha
  angular_forms: ^2.0.0-alpha

dev_dependencies:
  angular_test: ^2.0.0-alpha
```

### Switch to build_runner

Add or update the build_runner related dependencies to your `pubspec.yaml`.

```yaml
dev_dependencies:
  build_runner: ^0.9.0
  build_test: ^0.10.2
  build_web_compilers: ^0.4.0
```

> Notice: It's no longer required to use a separate tool/build.dart in case previous versions of build_runner where
  used within the project. If builders outside of angular are used, see [build_config README](https://github.com/dart-lang/build/tree/master/build_config) 
  for instructions to setup an individual build configuration.

Make sure to ignore the `.dart_tool` directory in your `.gitignore` configuration. The directory will contain the
generated results of the `build_runner`.

> Notice: When developing in Intellij/WebStorm it's currently also recommended to mark the directory as excluded as it 
  will constantly change and cause Intellij to reanalyze the code frequently, which results in a loss of performance.

Drop transformer related dependencies.

- dart_to_js_script_rewriter
- browser

Remove transformer configuration from `pubspec.yaml`. 

**Old code:**

```yaml
dependencies:
  # ...

dev_dependencies:
  # ...

transformers:
- angular:
    platform_directives:
    - 'package:angular2/common.dart#COMMON_DIRECTIVES'
    platform_pipes:
    - 'package:angular2/common.dart#COMMON_PIPES'
    entry_points: web/main.dart
- test/pub_serve:
    $include:
      - test/**.dart
- dart_to_js_script_rewriter
```

**New code:**

```yaml
dependencies:
  # ...

dev_dependencies:
  # ...
```

Move your dart2js configuration out of your `pubspec.yaml` into a `build.release.yaml` config. 
*This step is optional and the configuration may contain different configurations.*

**Old code (`pubspec.yaml`):**

```yaml
transformers:
- $dart2js:
    checked: false
    minify: true
    commandLineOptions: [--show-package-warnings]
```

**New code(`build.release.yaml`):**

```yaml
targets:
  $default:
    builders:
      build_web_compilers|entrypoint:
        options:
          compiler: dart2js
          dart2js_args:
          - --minify
          - --show-package-warnings
```

### Adjust analysis_options.yaml

There are several cases where `.template.dart` files are included (ex. `main.dart` and async routes). Therefore adding
the rule `uri_has_not_been_generated` to the `analysis_options.yaml` will prevent the analyzer from reporting 
unnecessary issues.

```yaml
linter:
  rules:
    - uri_has_not_been_generated
    # ...
``` 

### Setting up the root injector and runApp

angular 5.0 introduced `GenerateInjector`, which generates an injector at compile-time and as such enables better 
tree-shaking. This requires to import the generated `.template.dart` file within the injector setup file 
(ex. `main.dart`). 

**Old code (`main.dart`)**

```dart
import 'package:my_app/app_component.dart';

void main() {
  bootstrap(AppComponent, [
    provide(MyToken, useValue: 'test'),
    HeroService,
  ]);
}
```  

**New code (`main.dart`)**

```dart
import 'package:my_app/app_component.template.dart' as ng;
import 'main.template.dart' as self;

@GenerateInjector(const [
  const ValueProvider.forToken(MyToken, 'test'),
  const ClassProvider(HeroService),
])
final InjectorFactory injectorFactory = self.injectorFactory$Injector;

void main() {
  runApp(ng.AppComponentNgFactory, createInjector: injectorFactory);
}
```

For further information about best practices for the dependency injector see 
[effective DI](https://github.com/dart-lang/angular/blob/master/doc/effective/di.md#injectors). 


### Refactor providers to use typed variant

With the new version it's no longer necessary to use `@Injector` annotations for services, which will be used by the
`Injector`.

### Adjust deferred loaded components

### Remove usage of DynamicComponentLoader

### Refactor QueryList to List

### Refactor ElementRef to use Element

### Refactor OpaqueToken injections

### Move internationalisation to exports